Academic Curricular Groups
BREADCRUMB
Home PhD
Students pursue research within one of the following academic curricular groups, with mentorship from world-class faculty
COMPUTER ENGINEERING
The computer engineering group plays a critical role in innovating in the computing ecosystem, with research that spans from new computational devices to systems and software. Computer engineering research includes cyber-physical systems, dependability, networking, machine learning, mobile computing, novel computing devices, power-efficient computing and security. Many computer engineering research projects are inter-disciplinary, and there are many collaborations with the Department of Computer Science.
View Associated Faculty
ENGINEERING PHYSICS
Duke ECE is also the home of international leaders in information physics research, embodied in pathbreaking programs in metamaterials, quantum devices, and optical systems. This interdisciplinary research involves the design, fabrication and testing of revolutionary new devices, based on novel physical concepts, with a foundation in rigorous computational modeling in electromagnetics and quantum mechanics.
View Associated Faculty
MICROELECTRONICS, PHOTONICS AND NANOTECHNOLOGY
The fourth research area, microelectronics, photonics and nanotechnology (MPN), is highly vertically integrated, ranging from innovative materials, devices, and interconnects, through chip scale integrated systems. MPN research includes revolutionary microfluidic systems, nanoelectronics, optoelectronics, integrated optics, sensors, integrated multifunctional systems, energy conversion devices, and quantum sensors. The MPN research is highly interdisciplinary, and focused on design, fabrication through Duke’s Shared Materials Instrumentation Facility (SMIF) cleanroom and characterization facility, and device and system test.
View Associated Faculty
SIGNAL AND INFORMATION PROCESSING
A particular strength is in the area of signal and information processing (SIP), embodied by successful collaborations between ECE, statistics and applied mathematics. Duke has long been a leader in SIP research with defense applications, and there has also been a significant expansion into biomedical applications, in collaboration with the Duke University Medical Center.
View Associated Faculty
Quick Facts & Statistics
More about Student Services & Amenities
Meet Engineering PhD Alumni
BROWSE ONLINE
JOIN OUR MAILING LIST!
Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs and recruitment events »
PHD CONTACTS
Michael E. Gehm
Director of Graduate Studies and Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
919-660-5544
dgs@ee.duke.edu
Angela Chanh
Assistant Director of Graduate Studies
919-660-5245
ecephdteam@duke.edu
Kevyn Light
Senior Program Coordinator
919-660-5267
ecephdteam@duke.edu
Matthew Novik
Graduate Program Coordinator
919-660-1801
ecephdteam@duke.edu