Certificates & Training Programs
BREADCRUMB
Home PhD
GRADUATE CERTIFICATE PROGRAMS
Certificate in Photonics
The Duke Photonics Certificate Program provides a venue for master's and PhD students to learn more about photonics as a path to interdisciplinary research and technology development.
The program is offered through the multidisciplinary Fitzpatrick Institute of Photonics, which is based within the Duke University Pratt School of Engineering. Students are encouraged to develop broad and transferable sets of skills in their course work and research activities.
Certificate in Nanoscience
Duke ECE participates in the university-wide Graduate Certificate Program in Nanoscience, which provides an interdisciplinary education in the broad areas of nanoscience and nanomaterials. Open to master's and PhD students.
PHD TRAINING PROGRAMS
AI for Understanding and Designing Materials (aiM)
AI for Understanding and Designing Materials (aiM) is an NSF-funded graduate training program that provides students with integrated training for both materials and computer scientists to advance the frontiers of research and training at the intersection of data-driven artificial intelligence and materials science research. The proram is open to PhD students across the physical sciences, mathematics, computer science, materials science, and engineering. Learn more »
Traineeship for the Advancement of Surgical Technologies (TAST)
The NSF-funded Traineeship for the Advancement of Surgical Technologies (TAST) prepares graduate students to design advanced surgical technologies that benefit society through technical coursework, real-world surgical design challenges, professional development and study of legal, ethical, societal and economic considerations. TAST is a two-year program open to PhD and master’s students in the Pratt School of Engineering as well as the Department of Computer Science. Learn more » (scroll down to the "Research Traineeship Programs" header and open the "TAST" link)
  Quick Facts & Statistics
More about Student Services & Amenities
Meet Engineering PhD Alumni
BROWSE ONLINE
JOIN OUR MAILING LIST!
Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs and recruitment events »
PHD CONTACTS
Michael E. Gehm
Director of Graduate Studies and Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
919-660-5544
dgs@ee.duke.edu
Angela Chanh
Assistant Director of Graduate Studies
919-660-5245
ecephdteam@duke.edu
Kevyn Light
Senior Program Coordinator
919-660-5267
ecephdteam@duke.edu
Matthew Novik
Graduate Program Coordinator
919-660-1801
ecephdteam@duke.edu