Faculty
Filter by Research Area
All Faculty
AI/Machine Learning
Applications
Hardware & Software
Theory
Metamaterials
Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
Quantum Computing
Sensing & Imaging
Trustworthy Computing
CHAIR
Hai "Helen" Li
Clare Boothe Luce Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Research Interests: Neuromorphic computing systems Machine learning acceleration and trustworthy AIEmerging memory technologies, circuit and architecture Low power circuits and systems
ASSOCIATE CHAIRS
Lisa Gresham Huettel
Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. School Professor of the Practice of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Research Interests: Engineering education, pedagogy and curriculum development, applications of statistical signal processing
David R. Smith
James B. Duke Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Research Interests: Theory, simulation and demonstration of novel electromagnetic metamaterials across the spectrum, from microwave through optical. Applications of metamaterials for antennas and imaging devices, with a focus on security imaging and satellite imaging. General studies on advanced…
PRIMARY FACULTY
Tyler K Bletsch
Assistant Professor of the Practice in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Research Interests: Software security, robotics, project-oriented education, and datacenter efficiency
John A. Board
Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Research Interests: High performance scientific computing and simulation, novel computer architectures, cluster computing and parallel processing; ubiquitous computing.
Martin A. Brooke
Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Research Interests: Analog, RF, and optoelectronic circuits. Sensor interface circuits. Deployable sensor systems
April S. Brown
Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Kenneth R Brown
Michael J. Fitzpatrick Distinguished Professor of Engineering
Research Interests: Quantum error correction, quantum control, quantum computer architecture, ion trap quantum computing, and the spectroscopy of sympathetically cooled molecular ions
Robert Calderbank
Charles S. Sydnor Distinguished Professor of Computer Science
Lawrence Carin
Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Research Interests: Applied statistics and machine learning
Tingjun Chen
Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Research Interests: Wireless networking, next-generation wireless and optical networks, edge cloud and computing, Internet-of-Things (IoT), mobile and embedded systems, platforms and testbeds
Yiran Chen
John Cocke Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Research Interests: Emerging memory and storage technologies Embedded systems, CPS, edge computing, and mobile applications Neuromorphic computing, deep learning and system security Low power circuit and system
Leslie M. Collins
Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Research Interests: Physics-based machine learning algorithms for big data, including developing remediation strategies for the hearing impaired and sensor-based algorithms for the detection of hazardous buried objects
Steven A. Cummer
William H. Younger Distinguished Professor of Engineering
Research Interests: Theoretical and experimental electromagnetic problems related to geophysical remote sensing and engineered electromagnetic materials.
Shaundra Daily
Cue Family Professor of the Practice
Research Interests: Identity-inclusive computing, Human-centered design & engineering, justice-centered STEM education
Ingrid Daubechies
James B. Duke Distinguished Professor of Mathematics and Electrical and Computer Engineering
Richard B. Fair
Lord-Chandran Distinguished Professor of Engineering
Research Interests: Microfluidic systems for lab-on-a-chip applications based on electrowetting technology
Aaron D. Franklin
Addy Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Research Interests: Nanomaterials in electronic devices, nanofabrication, printed electronics and internet of things (IoT), biosensing
Michael E. Gehm
Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Research Interests: Primarily computational and compressive sensing and measurement in all modalities (with special emphasis in Electromagnetic/Optical from RF to x-ray and all forms of Mass spectrometry), with side interests in optical physics, high-performance x-ray simulation, and rapid-…
Jeffrey Glass
Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Research Interests: Electronic materials and the associated devices/instruments improved by these materials, especially electrode applications in miniature mass spectrometry, energy conversion and storage and liquid waste disinfection for developing regions. Electrochemical measurements and…
Neil Gong
Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Research Interests: Security, privacy, and machine learning. 
Maria Gorlatova
Nortel Networks Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Research Interests: Architectures, algorithms, and protocols for emerging mobile pervasive systems and the Internet of Things. Our work crosses traditional discipline boundaries and requires thinking across multiple layers of system and protocol stacks. We are focusing on breaking the barriers for…
Michael Richard Gustafson II
Associate Professor of the Practice of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Research Interests: Computational methods for image analysis and information extraction, discrete event simulations, curriculum development and deployment
Andrew Douglas Hilton
Professor of the Practice in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Research Interests: Computer architecture, specifically architectural support for security and energy-efficient performance
William T. Joines
Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Research Interests: Electromagnetic field and wave interactions with materials and structures
Nan Marie Jokerst
J. A. Jones Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Jungsang Kim
Schiciano Family Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Research Interests: Quantum Computing with Trapped Ions, Quantum Information Science, Novel Photonic Devices, Application of Quantum Computers
Jeffrey L. Krolik
Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Research Interests: Physics-based and statistical signal processing, sensor array processing, radar and sonar systems, pervasive distributed processing
Xin Li
Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Research Interests: Integrated circuits, signal processing and data analytics
Genevieve Lipp
Assistant Professor of the Practice in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Natalia Litchinitser
Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Research Interests: Nanophotonics; Photonic Metamaterials; Nonlinear Optics; Fiber Optics; Photonic Crystal Fibers
Jerome Peter Lynch
Fitzpatrick Family University Distinguished Professor of Engineering
Research Interests: Prof. Lynch's research interests are in advancing cyber-physical system architectures that combine sensing, computing, and control to create intelligent civil infrastructure systems.  He is best known for his research portfolio in structural health monitoring (SHM) that allow…
Iman Marvian
Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Research Interests: Quantum information and computation theory
Hisham Z. Massoud
Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Research Interests: Ultrathin gate dielectrics for CMOS ULSI – the technology, physics, modeling, simulation, and characterization of ultrathin-oxide MOSFETs
Maiken Mikkelsen
James N. and Elizabeth H. Barton Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Research Interests: Quantum nanophotonics, plasmonics, light-matter interactions in artificially structured nanoscale materials, hybrid molecular-scale materials and spin phenomena in the solid state
Christopher R Monroe
Gilhuly Family Presidential Distinguished Professor
Research Interests: quantum physics, applications in quantum information science
Crystal Noel
Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Research Interests: Quantum computing and simulation with trapped ions, integrated photonics for scalable trapped ion systems, and electric-field noise from surfaces
Douglas Nowacek
Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Research Interests: Marine mammal behavioral and acoustic ecologyOcean noiseOffshore renewable energy
Willie John Padilla
Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Research Interests: Theoretical and experimental investigation of electromagnetic metamaterials and metasurfaces, and their application to imaging and sensing at microwave, terahertz, and infrared frequencies
Miroslav Pajic
Dickinson Family Associate Professor
Research Interests: Design and analysis of autonomous cyber-physical systems (CPS), and in particular, embedded systems, AI, learning and controls, CPS security and high-assurance autonomy, with various application domains including robotics, automotive, and medical systems
Javier Pastorino
Assistant Professor of the Practice in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Jian Pei
Arthur S. Pearse Distinguished Professor of Computer Science
Henry Pfister
Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Research Interests: Information theory, communications, probabilistic graphical models, machine learning, and deep neural networks
Afsaneh Rahbar
Assistant Professor of the Practice in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Galen Reeves
Associate Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Research Interests: Information theory, high-dimensional statistical inference, statistical signal processing, compressed sensing, machine learning
Michael Reiter
James B. Duke Distinguished Professor
Research Interests: Prof. Reiter's research interests include all areas of computer and communications security, fault-tolerant distributed computing, and applied cryptography.
Christ D Richmond
Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Tania Roy
Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Research Interests: Energy-efficient electronicsTwo-dimensional materialsNeuromorphic ComputingOptoelectronicsWide bandgap materialsHigh power electronicsRadiation effects and reliability
Cynthia D. Rudin
Earl D. McLean, Jr. Professor
Guillermo Sapiro
James B. Duke Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Research Interests: Image and video processing, computer vision, computer graphics, computational vision, biomedical imaging, brain imaging, cryo-tomography of viruses, computational tools in cryo-tomography, computational tools in early diagnosis of psychiatric disorders, differential geometry and…
Daniel J. Sorin
Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Research Interests: Computer architecture, designing microarchitectures so that they are easier to verify, improving computer system fault tolerance, developing memory systems for multicore processors, and designing special-purpose accelerators
Adrienne Stiff-Roberts
Jeffrey N. Vinik Professor
Research Interests: Thin-film deposition, MAPLE, hybrid perovskites, hybrid nanocomposites, organic thin films
Stacy L. Tantum
Associate Professor of the Practice in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Research Interests: Physics-based statistical signal processing • Context-aware machine learning • Domain-informed data scienceExplainable/interpretable machine learning • Privacy-aware machine learning • Bias in machine learningNeuroscience-informed teaching • Metacognition • Cognitive load theory…
Vahid Tarokh
Rhodes Family Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Research Interests: Foundations of AI,  Foundations of Signal Processing, Learning Representations, Transfer Learning,  Meta-Learning, Physics Infused Learning, Extreme Value Theory, Dependence Modeling, Hypothesis Testing, Sequential Analysis.
Kishor S. Trivedi
Hudson Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Research Interests: Markov models, Fault trees, Stochastic Petri nets, Reliability Modeling, Availability Modeling, Performability modeling, Survivability modeling, Cyber Security, Software reliability, Software Fault Tolerance, Software Aging and Rejuvenation
Haozhe Wang
Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Research Interests: Low-dimensional materialsNanofabrication and nanodevicesSemiconductors, ceramics, metalsQuantum computing
Lisa Wills
Clare Boothe Luce Assistant Professor of Computer Science and Electrical and Computer Engineering
Research Interests: I enjoy solving difficult problems surrounding computations with the goal to process large volumes of data efficiently. My research interests include computer architecture and microarchitecture, hardware-software co-designs, accelerators, and emerging application domains ―…
Rabih Younes
Assistant Professor of the Practice in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Research Interests: Wearable computing, activity recognition, context awareness, machine learning, artificial intelligence, engineering education, and Middle Eastern politics
SECONDARY FACULTY
Ehsan Abadi
Assistant Professor in Radiology
Alberto Bartesaghi
Associate Professor of Computer Science
Research Interests: Image analysis, data science, computer vision, machine learning, image reconstruction, cryo-electron microscopy, protein structure
David Carlson
Assistant Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering
Research Interests: Machine learning, predictive modeling, health data science, statistical neuroscience
Marko Cetina
Assistant Professor of Physics
Boyuan Chen
Assistant Professor in the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science
Research Interests: Robotics, computer vision, machine learning, AI for science
Stefano Curtarolo
Edmund T. Pratt Jr. School Distinguished Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science
Research Interests: Artificial Intelligence Materials Science; Autonomous Materials Design; Computational materials science; High-Entropy Disordered Systems; Materials for Energy Applications; Materials for Aerospace Applications. Prof. Curtarolo multidisciplinary research makes use of state-of-the…
Dean F Darnell
Assistant Professor in Radiology
Bruce Randall Donald
James B. Duke Distinguished Professor of Computer Science
Jessilyn Dunn
Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering
Research Interests: Use of large-scale biomedical datasets to model and guide personalized therapies.
Timothy Dunn
Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering
Research Interests: Machine learning, computer vision, neurobiology, animal behavior, computational neuroscience, prognostic modeling, traumatic brain injury
Pardis Emami-Naeini
Assistant Professor of Computer Science
Sina Farsiu
Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Research Interests: Focused on medical imaging and machine learning to improve the overall health and vision outcome of patients with ocular and neurological diseases (e.g., age-related macular degeneration, diabetic retinopathy, Alzheimer, and ALS) through earlier and personalized therapy.
Gleb Finkelstein
Professor of Physics
Research Interests: My main research topic is the study of the coexistence of superconductivity and the quantum Hall effect. The highlights of this work include: the first observation of a superconducting current induced in the regime of the quantum Hall effect, realization of the quantum Hall-…
Yiyang Gong
Adjunct Assistant Professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering
Research Interests: Recording and understanding brain activity by developing novel combinations of optical microscopy and genetically encoded sensors. Using these technologies, we wish to dissect neural circuit function and investigate how neural activity drives complex behaviors.
Warren M. Grill
Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. School Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering
Research Interests: Neural engineering and neural prostheses and include design and testing of electrodes and stimulation techniques, the electrical properties of tissues and cells, and computational neuroscience with applications in restoration of bladder function, treatment of movement disorders…
Ricardo Henao
Associate Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Roarke Horstmeyer
Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering
Research Interests: Computational optics, machine learning, and designing new algorithms for image processing. A main focus is to improve how we capture and use images of microscopic phenomena within a range of biomedical contexts. In general, I like to create new optical devices that can improve…
Tony Jun Huang
William Bevan Distinguished Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science
Research Interests: Acoustofluidics, microfluidics, lab-on-a-chip, biomedical micro-electro-mechanical systems (BioMEMS), optofluidics, plasmofluidics.
Joseph A. Izatt
Michael J. Fitzpatrick Distinguished Professor of Engineering
Research Interests: Biomedical optics and spectroscopy, coherence-based imaging and microscopy, novel instrumentation for minimally invasive medical diagnostics, and real-time image-guided robotic microsurgery.
Kyle Jon Lafata
Thaddeus V. Samulski Associate Professor of Radiation Oncology
Research Interests: Biomedical imaging, image processing, computer vision, computational pathology, applied analysis of stochastic differential equations, high dimensional data analysis, feature engineering, adaptive imaging, multi-scale data fusion, Uncertainty Quantification
Alvin R. Lebeck
Professor of Computer Science
Joseph Yuan-Chieh Lo
Professor in Radiology
Bruce Maggs
Pelham Wilder Distinguished Professor of Computer Science
Brian Mann
Professor in the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science
Research Interests: Nonlinear dynamics and vibration utilizing analytical, numerical, and experimental techniques. Fundamental investigations of phenomenon and application areas where dynamical systems theory plays an important role.
Maciej A Mazurowski
Associate Professor in Radiology
Felipe Medeiros
Adjunct Professor of Ophthalmology
John Pearson
Assistant Professor of Neurobiology
Angel V Peterchev
Associate Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
John H. Reif
A. Hollis Edens Distinguished Professor of Computer Science
Ehsan Samei
Reed and Martha Rice Distinguished Professor of Radiology
Research Interests: Dr. Samei’s scientific expertise include x-ray imaging, theoretical imaging models, simulation methods, and experimental techniques in medical image formation, quantification, and perception.  His research aims to bridge the gap between scientific scholarship and clinical…
Rohit Singh
Assistant Professor of Biostatistics & Bioinformatics
Research Interests: Drug discoveries have been instrumental in improving global health over the last century, but the median drug now takes about 10 years to bring to market and costs over a billion dollars to develop. My lab aims to expedite the development of precise diagnostics and therapeutics…
Yun Wang
Assistant Professor in Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences
Jiaming Xu
Associate Professor of Business Administration
Research Interests: Network science, machine learning, high-dimensional statistical inference, information theory, optimization, stochastic systems, game theory, communications and networking
Pan Xu
Assistant Professor of Biostatistics & Bioinformatics
Research Interests: Artificial Intelligence, Data Science, Optimization, Reinforcement Learning, and High Dimensional Statistics
Xiaowei Yang
Professor of Computer Science
Michael Zavlanos
Professor in the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science
Research Interests: Control theory, optimization, and learning; in particular, robotics and autonomous systems, networked and distributed control systems, and cyber-physical systems.
Anru Zhang
Eugene Anson Stead, Jr. M.D. Associate Professor
RESEARCH FACULTY
Jason Amsden
Associate Research Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Research Interests: My area of interest is in the application of computational and compressive techniques to improve spectroscopic instrument design. Spectroscopic measurements are a convolution of the instrument response and the desired spectrum. Conventional spectroscopic instruments are designed…
Kyle Bradbury
Assistant Research Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Juan Matias Di Martino
Adjunct Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Emily Edwards
Associate Research Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Joel Alter Greenberg
Associate Research Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Research Interests: Computational sensing with a focus on novel, physics-based measurement techniques for practical applications.  Primarily focused in the electromagnetic/optical spectrum ranging from ELF through visible and hard X-rays, with applications to security, non-destructive testing, and…
Sonia Grego
Associate Research Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Alexander Y. Kozhanov
Associate Research Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Paolo F Maccarini
Associate Research Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Boyla Octavie Mainsah
Assistant Research Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Brian R. Stoner
Research Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
ADJUNCT FACULTY
Mary "Missy" Cummings
Adjunct Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Research Interests: Human-unmanned vehicle interaction, human-autonomous system collaboration, human-systems engineering, public policy implications of unmanned vehicles, and the ethical and social impact of technology.
Jeffrey Derby
Adjunct Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Adel F Fahmy
Adjunct Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Farshad Firouzi
Adjunct Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Mary Knox
Adjunct Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Nathan Kundtz
Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Benjamin C Lee
Adjunct Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Research Interests: Computer architecture and systems, energy efficiency, performance modeling, and algorithmic economics for resource management; policy for environmentally sustainable information technology infrastructure
Huanqian Loh
Visiting Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Jordan Milton Malof
Adjunct Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Research Interests: Application of advanced machine learning and computer vision techniques to real-world problems
James Morizio
Adjunct Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Research Interests: Mixed-Signal CMOS circuit design, layout and testing Bioelectronic circuits for wireless neural interfaces: Recording and Stimulation Sigma Delta ADC and DACs architecture and circuit design Ultrasound Pre-Amplifier and multiplexing Liquid Crystal on Silicon (LCOS) Pixel driver…
Steven Noyce
Adjunct Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Joe X Qiu
Adjunct Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Andrew Rindos
Adjunct Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Brian M Rogers
Adjunct Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Evan Runnerstrom
Adjunct Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Patrick Wang
Adjunct Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Emily Wenger
Visiting Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Blake Shaw Wilson
Adjunct Professor in the Department of Head and Neck Surgery & Communication Sciences
ENTREPRENEUR IN RESIDENCE
Vamsee K Pamula
Entrepreneur in Residence
Research Interests: Development of inexpensive and accessible newborn screening and pediatric diagnostic products
EMERITUS FACULTY
David J. Brady
Michael J. Fitzpatrick Distinguished Professor Emeritus of Photonics
Research Interests: Professor Brady's research focuses on "smart cameras" which use artificial intelligence to increase the amount of visual information captured and to render this information useful. In 2012 his group built the world's first gigapixel camera, his work today focuses on making…
H. Craig Casey
Professor Emeritus of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Peter N. Marinos
Professor Emeritus of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Loren W. Nolte
Professor Emeritus in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Research Interests: Bayesian approach to signal detection, classification, estimation, tracking and decision and sensor fusion. Applications in ocean acoustics, and in medical imaging for cancer research.
PODCAST
Listen to a new podcast from Duke Engineering, dedicated to the ingenious ways that engineers are solving society's toughest problems.
LISTEN & SUBSCRIBE

ASK AN EXPERT: DUKE ECE RESEARCH »
NEWS FROM DUKE ECE
APRIL 02, 2024 | Duke Engineering
Sun Wins AAAI Best Paper Award
MARCH 27, 2024 | Duke Engineering
InventHERs Institute Lets Local Underrepresented Girls See Themselves in STEM
MARCH 26, 2024 | Trinity College of Arts and Sciences
The Flip Side of Safety is an Attack on Privacy: Regulating Face Recognition Technology
VIEW ALL NEWS