Undergraduate Study in Electrical & Computer Engineering
Become a creative engineer, inspired and equipped to make an impact
What does tomorrow’s engineer need to know? At Duke Electrical & Computer Engineering, we’ve thought hard about this question. From your very first semester at Duke, our signature educational experience will immerse you in:
Hands-on design
Data science
Computing
Research
Entrepreneurship
At Duke ECE, we are preparing creative engineers who are inspired and equipped to solve complex societal problems.
CUSTOMIZE YOUR DEGREE 
  We provide more opportunities and are more flexible and less restrictive than many other ECE programs in the United States. Students use this flexibility to expand their horizons and explore personal interests more deeply.
What is the difference between computer engineering and computer science? »
Areas of Concentration
Duke ECE undergraduate students pursue their interests in five areas of concentration:
Computer Engineering and Digital Systems
Signal Processing, Communications and Control Systems
Solid-State Devices and Integrated Circuits
Electromagnetic Fields
Photonics
In-Depth Pathway: Machine Learning
Plus, students who elect to complete a more in-depth pathway can earn a Concentration in Machine Learning designation on their transcript.
HIGHLY RANKED
#8 U.S. faculty research productivity in computer engineering
Top 25 U.S. undergraduate Computer Engineering program
90% of recent Duke ECE graduates accepted jobs or had job offers at graduation (National comparison: 83%)
Sources: Academic Analytics, US. News & World Report, Duke ECE Class of 2022 survey.
MORE DUKE ECE FACTS
WE'LL MAKE YOU A PROGRAMMER
Each study track emphasizes the acquisition, processing, control, transmission, and application of information and energy by what are fundamentally electrical or electromagnetic means.
All the tracks include high-level computer languages (software), which facilitate the convenient and efficient application of technology (hardware) to the solution of useful problems.
APPLY NOW
Click to see deadlines and application instructions:
APPLY TO DUKE 
PROGRAM EDUCATIONAL OBJECTIVES
Our goal is to graduate electrical and computer engineers who embody excellence in a broad sense. We expect our graduates to advance within industry positions or in graduate study, or to carry the attributes of an engineering education into other disciplines.
The electrical and computer engineering program of study must include mathematics and basic sciences, fundamentals and applications in several engineering sciences, and team-based experience in the process of design, where theory is applied in the context of real needs and limitations, and where judgment must be exercised.
Our electrical and computer engineering graduates should be able to think critically when solving problems and managing tasks and communicate effectively in multidisciplinary professional environments.
To be a responsible member of the engineering profession, each graduate must be aware of social, ethical, environmental and economic factors and constraints on engineering activity, and must understand the importance of these matters in a global context.
We aspire to have our graduates exhibit intellectual depth and creativity, uphold high ethical standards, and show a commitment to the betterment of society through service and professional work.
The specific program educational objectives that we look for in our graduates are that they:
Advance professionally in their chosen field
Contribute to their professional community and to society
Engage in lifelong learning in professional and personal endeavors
STUDENT LEARNING OUTCOMES
Our students will have the following capabilities upon completion of their degrees:
An ability to identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering problems by applying principles of engineering, science, and mathematics
An ability to apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet specified needs with consideration of public health, safety, and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and economic factors
An ability to communicate effectively with a range of audiences
An ability to recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in engineering situations and make informed judgments, which must consider the impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, environmental, and societal contexts
An ability to function effectively on a team whose members together provide leadership, create a collaborative and inclusive environment, establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectives
An ability to develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and interpret data, and use engineering judgment to draw conclusions
An ability to acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning strategies
EXPLORE DUKE
Compare degrees & certificates
Learn ECE details for applicants
Explore student opportunities
Meet Our Faculty
View enrollment and graduation rates
ABET ACCREDITATION
Our programs are accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET.

ASK AN EXPERT: DUKE ECE RESEARCH »
UNDERGRADUATE CONTACT
Lisa Gresham Huettel
Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. School Professor of the Practice of Electrical and Computer Engineering
919-660-5237
lisa.huettel@duke.edu
NEWS FROM DUKE ECE
APRIL 02, 2024 | Duke Engineering
Sun Wins AAAI Best Paper Award
MARCH 27, 2024 | Duke Engineering
InventHERs Institute Lets Local Underrepresented Girls See Themselves in STEM
MARCH 26, 2024 | Trinity College of Arts and Sciences
The Flip Side of Safety is an Attack on Privacy: Regulating Face Recognition Technology
VIEW ALL NEWS